React native vs swift

React native: Steven recommmends this
could be easier, more familiar, same dev environment, written in js.
1 new things
still need marginal x-code
(speckles was done using react)
still basically need to choose index.ios.js or index.android.js to focus on
--> still uses

Do the React native tutorial today and then see Steven later Thursday or friday for 30 minute session on



Swift:
everything is different
3 new things
foreign dev environment
ios SDK???
need a closure function?
fetch().then() --> becomes a large block of code
iphone story boards are a huge pain in the neck
--> 1 single file that shows where you want things on the page

Using swift means a much smaller feature set to show off at the end, less functional MVP
PROS: we can say we learned swift in a week.




Other notes:
Use GPS kit
Google turn/directions app
App always open ???:
--> when you start location services, you give it permissions on the first run
then the app will run in background
Node server running and communicating with the phone.

Query google calendar API, use phones gps to determine if youve moved yet
--> tell me when theres a significant change in position


First Steps:
List the feature set
read React native tutorial --> write a small program in it
(facebook's, see youtube, docs arent great but ok)
"Spike"


Features:
1) will tell you when you need to leave, popup on phone
so if 30 min commute, need to be at DBC at 845, tells me i should leave in 5 minutes at 8:10

Necessary info:
1) user login info, gmail email, username, password --> omni auth API with google
2) current traffic report from google maps
3) location of destination
4) set default mode of transportation upon installation (subway, walking, car, bus)
5) travel time between current location and destinations of next upcoming event on the calendar.
6)


Every 5 minutes, does calculation of how long it will take to get there,
--> when the time of travel is within 15 minutes of the appt_time - current_time, it will alert you

If you have a bunch of different events: you should be able to set whether to alert you about commute time or not
User-story : I want to be able to turn on or off alerts for any event in my calendar
- If I want an alert, the app will check to make sure it has all relevant info, destination address, time of day & timezone, and that location/gps tracking is on

When do alerts happen?:
 - settable alert times within app. default is 5 minutes
 - if actual time arrives, you get another alert.
 - once youve moved any significant distance, app assumes you have started travelling and ceases alerts
 - user can ask for status of current commute at any point in time, and you get a green, yellow, or red light based on where you are and how much time you have left.
 - at any point in time, get directions to your destination, with current location and destination automatically set based on you calendar and gps

Names:

AmIlate?
getMoving
5moreminutes
